add media_vault tool to contrib (#2357)
bareos/bareos: contrib/misc/media_vault/README.md

# Media Vault Management

This utility helps administrators to select and export tapes from an
autoloader for placement into an external vault location.

It is written in Python 3 (minimum version 3.6) and uses the 
``python_bareos`` module to interact with the Director.

## Manual Installation

> Install the script at where bareos python plugin are located `/usr/lib64/bareos/plugins`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Install the script into the bareos plugin directory (e.g. `/usr/lib64/bareos/plugins`)
```

```bash
cp media_vault.py /usr/lib64/bareos/plugins/
chmod 0755 /usr/lib64/bareos/plugins/media_vault.py
chown root:root /usr/lib64/bareos/plugins/media_vault.py
```

Install the helper in `/usr/lib/bareos/scripts/`

```bash
cp media_vault.sh /usr/lib/bareos/scripts/
chmod 0755 /usr/lib/bareos/scripts/media_vault.sh
chown root:root /usr/lib/bareos/scripts/media_vault.sh
```

### Virtualenv

> Prepare a Python 3 venv to work with, and install ``python_bareos`` in.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Prepare a Python 3 venv with ``python_bareos`` in it.
```

> It is a good practise run this as bareos user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is recommended run this as bareos user.
```

```bash
su bareos -l -s /bin/bash
python3 -m venv ~/.local/share/virtualenvs/bareos_media_vault
. ~/.local/share/virtualenvs/bareos_media_vault/bin/activate
python3 -m pip install python_bareos ConfigArgParse
```

.. note:
   TLS-PSK native support requires Python version >= 3.12. Or using

>    ``sslpsk`` module (which work up to python 3.9, but need to have

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   ``sslpsk`` module (which works up to python 3.9, but needs to have
```

>    TLS-PSK native support requires Python version >= 3.12. Or using
>    ``sslpsk`` module (which work up to python 3.9, but need to have

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   TLS-PSK native support requires Python version >= 3.12. Alternatively,
   the ``sslpsk`` module can be used for python versions <= 3.9, but it requires gcc.
```

   gcc installed). It can also be installed from github repository
   to support Python version up to 3.10.

### Without Virtualenv

> If python3-bareos, configargparse packages are available as native packages,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If python3-bareos and ConfigArgParse are available as native packages,
```

you can install them directly with your package manager as root.

.. note:

>    ``configArgParse`` requires to be version >= 1.2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   ``configArgParse`` version >= 1.2 is required
```
maybe also mention why (is it for media_vault or for python_bareos, ...)

```bash
dnf install python3-bareos python39-configargparse.noarch
```

## Configuration & installation

### bareos dir dedicated console and acl profile

To protect your director, it is recommended to create a restricted console,
dedicated to the tool, with restricted acls.

#### Example of console

`/etc/bareos/bareos-dir.d/console/media_vault.conf`

```conf
Console {
  Name = "media_vault"
  Password = "console_password"
  Description = "Restricted console used by media_vault.py script"
  Profile = "media_vault"

  # As python before version 3.12 does not support TLS-PSK without extension (ssl-psk)
  # and the director has TLS enabled by default, we need to either disable TLS or setup
  # TLS with certificates.
  #
  # For testing purposes we disable it here

>   TLS Enable = No

Reviewer: people will just copy and paste what they see here.  Are we sure we want this to be clear text in our examples ?

Author: done now example have now all blank password

chmod 0640 /etc/bareos/bareos-dir.d/console/media_vault.conf
chown bareos:bareos /etc/bareos/bareos-dir.d/console/media_vault.conf
```

#### Example of profile for restricted console

`/etc/bareos/bareos-dir.d/profile/media_vault.conf`

```conf
Profile {
   Name = media_vault
   Description = "Profile allowing Bareos autoloader & tape operations."

   Command ACL = show, umount, unmount, mount, export, update, .api, .sql
   Command ACL = !*all*

   Catalog ACL = *all*
   Client ACL = *all*
   FileSet ACL = *all*
   Job ACL = *all*
   Plugin Options ACL = *all*
   Pool ACL = *all*
   Schedule ACL = *all*
   Storage ACL = *all*
   Where ACL = *all*
}
```

#### installation of dedicated profile for restricted console

```bash
cp profile_media_vault.conf.example /etc/bareos/bareos-dir.d/profile/media_vault.conf
chmod 0640 /etc/bareos/bareos-dir.d/profile/media_vault.conf
chown bareos:bareos /etc/bareos/bareos-dir.d/profile/media_vault.conf
```

### configuration file and parameters for run

The tool is highly configurable with a number of parameters described
in its associated configuration file ``media_vault.ini.in``

> By default the tool will try to check if a default file exists in

Author: I've redone the section in 8d82b7431 hope this clarify a lot the functionalities.

The script will prepare the candidate list of volumes ready for
ejection from the specified auto-changer.

That list of volume is build against a number of constraints:

- minimal size the tape need to have (for example 4TB)
- max age backward period considered (up to which date in the past,
  for example 21 days)
- min age, minimal wait time (don't considered volumes more fresh
  than, for example 1 day)
- pools in which volume are searched, as a comma separated list of
  pools names
- presence in autochanger
- volume status being 'Full' or 'Used' (default list) that can be
  extended to 'Append'
- prepare and create a picking list for your vaulting provider

The whole list has detailed informations described in the distributed
``.ini`` template file.

#### example of query used

```sql
select slot,storageid,volumename,volbytes,lastwritten,volretention,poolid
from media m
where
m.poolid in (select poolid from pool where name ~* 'Offsite')
and
m.storageid in (select storageid from storage where name ~* 'Tapes')
and
m.inchanger = 1
and
m.volbytes >= 419430400
and
m.volstatus in ('Full','Used')
and
m.lastwritten between '2023-10-30 06:20:02' and '2023-11-19 05:20:02'
;

> ```

Reviewer: Looks like this is a query generated by media_vault ? Maybe then the title could be
```
#### example query generated by media_vault
```
